honored to be on a product management
podcast for a person who doesn't believe
product management is real we're already
already getting into the hot takes you
launched TBH went viral you end up
selling it to Facebook what was the
Insight that helped you come up with
this is a big idea that we should try I
looked on the App Store and the number
one app in the United States was an app
called saraha but the entire app was in
Arabic like the strongest signal that
you could ever have that people want
something this is insane I did not know
this whole story so we launched this app
it immediately took off servers started
crashing I looked at our numbers and I'm
like we will be number one in the United
States in like six days a tip that
you're sharing here is look for lat and
demand where people are trying to obtain
a particular value and going through a
very distortive process if you can
actually crystallize what their
motivation is you can have this kind of
intense adoption I I didn't know you're
actually a product manager at Facebook
the thing I didn't real realiz as a
product manager in a large tech company
is there is very little product
management that you do they're mainly
just writing a documents and then kind
of being the team secretary and running
around getting approvals but products
Live and Die in the pixels you should be
designing the hierarchy the pixels the
flows everything that's on you at some
point you started tweeting like hey I'm
working on you app everyone was going
nuts I saw stat that you made $11
million in sales 10 million downloads
the thing that is hard to really
understand is it is absolute chaos to
keep the thing online I was sleeping 3
hours a day for 3 months our team was
also Relentless though they would come
over to my house 9:00 a.m. stay until
midnight and just do that 7 days a week
is there anything else that's just like
this is something that is probably going
to help you with your app with certainty
if you're good at your job you can make
an app grow and go viral over the years
of building all these apps I've accured
all these growth hacks that still nobody
knows about
[Music]
today my guest is Nikita beer Nikita has
built launched and helped get more apps
to the top of the App Store than any
human I've ever come across he sold his
first big hit TBH to Facebook for over
$30 million he sold his second big app
gas to Discord for many millions more he
did this all with a tiny team and very
little funding he's also helped dozens
of Founders and apps and as an adviser
or investor to companies like flow
citizen be real locket and wealth simple
and many more today he spends his time
advising companies on file growth
strategies design feedback structuring
their product development process and a
lot more what I love about Nikita is
that he has very strong opinions about
how to build successful products that
are rooted in him actually doing the
work over the past decade to see for
himself what works and what doesn't
Nikita has been the single most
requested guest on this podcast and
you'll soon see why this episode is
packed with tactics and stories and
lessons that I am sure will leave you
wanting more more if you want to work
with Nikita on your app you can actually
book his time at intro. c/ Nikita beer
and if you enjoy this podcast don't
forget to subscribe and follow it in
your favorite podcasting app or YouTube
it's the best way to avoid missing
future episodes and helps the podcast
tremendously with that I bring you
Nikita
beer Nikita thank you so much for being
here welcome to the podcast thanks for
having me I'm excited to to dive in I'm
also I feel uh honored to be on a
product management podcast for a person
who doesn't believe product management
is real we're ready ready getting into
the hot takes uh we're definitely going
to chat about wait and you said not real
okay I thought you were gonna say not uh
not useful okay this is good okay let's
put a pin in that I think we think this
I think everyone already feels this I
think it's gonna be a very special
conversation I've been looking forward
to chatting you for a long time and
there's so much that I want to ask you
the way that I'm thinking we frame this
convers ation is we go through the story
behind the apps that you've built or
helped build that have hit the top of
the App Store and basically hear the
inside story of what it took to build
those apps and to make them successful
and then through that try to extract as
many lessons as we can about what it
takes to build a successful viral
consumer app these days how does that
sound to you sounds amazing and a lot of
it was luck but a lot of it was uh very
very tactical work that uh went into it
all this episode is brought to you by
webflow we're all friends here so let's
be real for a second we all know that
your website shouldn't be a static asset
it should be a dynamic part of your
strategy that drives conversion that's
business 101 but here's a number for you
54% of leaders say web updates take too
long that's over half of you listening
right now that's where webflow comes in
their visual first platform allows you
to build launch and optimize web pages
fast that means you can set ambitious
business goals and your site can rise to
the challenge learn how teams like
Dropbox idio and orange theory trust
webflow to achieve their most ambitious
goals today at web flow.com
this episode is brought to you by vanta
when it comes to ensuring your company
has topnotch security practices things
get complicated fast now you can assess
risk secure the trust of your customers
and automate compliance for sock 2 ISO
2701 Hippa and more with a single
platform vanta V's Market leading trust
management platform helps you
continuously monitor compliance
alongside reporting and tracking risk
plus you can save hours by completing
security questionnaires with vanza AI
join thousands of global companies that
use Vana to automate evidence collection
unify risk management and streamline in
Security reviews get $1,000 off vanta
when you go to
v.com Lenny that's VA
n.com
Lenny First I want to start with
something that I think very few people
know about you so the first thing that
you built the first product that you
built was uh very different from what
you do these days and it was a product
called potify which something I actually
would really want it helps you decide
who to vote for based on how it would
impact your life can you just share a
bit about just that part of your life
and why you decided to Pivot away from
that into consumer apps yeah so when I
was in college I was really interested
in this kind of uh thing that American
voters do which is like they they vote
against their own Financial
self-interest like people in New York
and San Francisco you know vote for
democrats for higher taxes people in
Kansas uh vote for Republicans for low
taxes and not uh and they you know they
make less money and so that fewer
government benefits and I wanted build
this tool that would help communicate
the financial impacts of these policy
proposals of presidents and I I built it
in like my last year of college and we
it was just a web app that we put out
and it would it would calculate their
tax proposals the government benefits
that they were proposing and you would
enter in your basic personal information
how many kids you have uh if uh your age
and then it would just tell tell you in
dollars what the impact would be and it
also tell you uh we simulated those
policies also against uh the tax returns
of every zip code so you could see how
it impacts your community it went super
viral um like I think very few people
thought of politics that way and I think
we got like four million uh users on it
uh during that season of the during that
election and like it was just a kind of
like a project that we raised some grant
money for ended up feeding into this
company that we uh spun up and that was
called outline um because we had a bunch
of governments reach out to us asking
can you build this for our budget so the
governor of Massachusetts actually
reached out and I I flew out there to
meet with them and uh that was going to
be our first customer and so I we uh we
raised some money we got a we w a
government contract and uh we joined
techstars uh the accelerator
and we ended up getting uh we got a
contract in the pipeline with the Obama
Administration uh and then we uh we got
this uh contract and we started building
it and the government shutdown happened
in the middle of like as we were
building it and we had one of our
contracts cancel and I realized like I I
actually really don't like selling
software to governments and my core
competency all along was making things
that go viral on the internet uh like
that was that was what we had built not
this policy simulation tool and so you
know we we went to our investors and we
said look this uh this isn't actually
what uh we're excited about doing
anymore um and we we offered to give the
money back uh and said we're going to be
building consumer apps and here's a few
ideas that we have none of them took the
money back um and so then we spent the
next
uh like four or five years building a
variety of different kind of consumer uh
consumer apps so we we had a few like
kind of mild successes during the course
of those four to five years and one of
them was a uh an app called five Labs
that ingested your Facebook posts and
determine your personality based on the
language you use uh and it used this
exact same model that Cambridge
analytica used and that was super viral
I think you know we had like tens of
millions of profiles in it and this all
it went viral in like three days and so
we raised some more money based off the
success of that
and we we started focusing a lot more on
mobile after that first app five labs
and we we launched you know uh basically
every type of app you can imagine we
launched mapping apps chat apps event
meet up apps any like basically every
kind of consumer app on mobile that you
could think of and that actually helped
us kind of build a muscle to understand
what people want and how to actually
make things grow and how to test them
and over time we started uh focusing
more on teens and a lot of people ask
why Silicon Valley is so fixated on
building apps for teens and one of the
reasons is their habits are pretty
malleable like as we get older we like
kind of get kind of fixed fixed into our
our habits of using certain
communication products and we don't
really adopt new things and then the
other thing that we discovered was that
adults don't really you know invite
people to new apps we found that as a
user got older from age 13 to 18 like
the number of people that they invite to
an app just declines almost
exponentially and finally the and the
most important thing is they see each
other every day and that is so critical
like consumer app developers sometimes
say smokers are great for uh like
targeting an audience because they
actually like hang out you know
serendipitously a lot outside of you
know buildings and so but not not to say
like social apps are cigarettes I I I
don't really like that metaphor but just
on the note of you talking about white
teens are important I I have this quote
actually from you that I love where
building on the point you made that for
every social app I've ever built the
number of invitations sent per user
drops 20% for every additional year of
age from 13 to 18 so if you build for
adults expect to acquire every user with
ads and I love that you have a very
clear euristic of per year the amount of
people they invite to the app is 20%
lower if your users aren't inviting
people to your app uh you're going to
have to find another way to uh to
acquire them and that most likely means
ads and uh if if if you're targeting uh
older cohorts like adults you're going
to have to uh raise a huge amount of
venture capital to finance that user
acquisition Pipeline and it's going to
be extraordinarily expensive as a seed
stage startup it's going to be basically
impossible to uh to to grow that uh user
base especially to get density if you
need uh uh actual Network effects among
users so basically you're building this
uh help me decide who to vote for app
that turned into a real business with
like government contracts coming to you
trying to help you pushing you to build
something that you end up realizing I
don't want to be doing this why am I
building this app selling government
contracts and so what you did is you and
this is a really interesting lesson to
take aways you just realize I don't want
to be doing this investors don't force
me to be working on this I'm going to
stop this I'm going to go work on some
other stuff that I'm actually excited
about that I think has a bigger chance
of success and that's where you
transition to this startup Studio Studio
where you're just trying a bunch of apps
and I think it was called Midnight Labs
you said something like that right yeah
awesome so basically I think that's an
really interesting Insight of just like
if you're working on something you don't
enjoy you can change that you can pivot
you can tell your investors I want to
work on something else uh is there
anything there that you want to add
along those lines it was really hard for
us to uh pivot to mobile I think that
was one of the most challenging things
for me personally because it was a
completely different Paradigm like I
actually have been building web apps
since I was 12 years old and I I you
know I I I built a uh full eCommerce
business selling pirated games on the
web and I knew everything about like
growing a website but as I as we pivoted
to mobile I I had to like recalibrate my
whole brain on how to how to do that
mobile apps have such a uh low margin
for error when it comes to designing
them because I I I I have this like
dogmatic view uh that like every tap on
a mobile app is a miracle for you as a
product developer because users will
turn and bounce to the their next app
very quickly uh if you actually sit
behind someone and watch them use their
phone they actually switch between apps
at a pretty high frequency so every tap
that you get every single one is so
scarce that you should be optimizing
everything and so I had to change my
whole brain when we started pivoting to
mobile and building these mobile apps uh
and it took a lot of failures like we
you know we we uh for like 14 of the
apps that we launched were basically
Duds and then we started fixating on
teens uh and and building apps for them
and eventually we figured out an
interesting horis for identifying
consumer product opportunities that
ultimately led us to TBH you spent four
or five years trying a bunch different
ideas I think people see this headline
and we'll get into TB of just like n
weeks after launch sells for $30 million
to Facebook and everyone's like oh okay
that's amazing I want that for my life
nobody knows there's this like four or
five years of trying you said 15
different apps uh before you got there
learning the things that actually work
and don't work we built like 15 apps
over that the course of that pivot uh to
Consumer and we built apps for like
every single app you know map apps uh
chat apps uh you know to-do lists we
just built every type of consumer app
you could possibly think of and also we
built for every audience too we built
for college students we built for you
know post college and it was always very
difficult to get the Flywheel spinning
for anyone after like 22 years old that
that was like the cut off of when uh
people just have give up on adopting new
products and and that was a kind of like
it took us a few years to really
internalize that um a lot of failures to
realize no one needs another app after
that age so the thing that you found
there which is really interesting
because most people are building for
people older than 22 that's like a
profound Insight you had there uh uh
like every consumer app I see is like
trying to build for adults and your
lesson there is basically if you're
trying to do that you're probably going
to need to raise money and spend a lot
of money and PID outs yeah and most
likely you'll never get network effects
there's actually an interesting study
like many years ago that uh like some
academics in Spain did uh I think it was
in Spain uh and they looked at how many
people you text you know per year of
your life and it goes up like very
quickly from 14 to 18 it Peaks around 21
so it's growing the number of people you
text is growing up until about 21 and
then it just Falls it collapses uh and
then it comes back up in uh at end of
life and there's a few reasons all this
happens but uh basically you know once
you exit College you kind of reduce the
number of contacts you have your daily
contacts once you get married it's even
fewer and then when as you get older you
know you uh and your your kids start
having kids and you become a grandparent
you start texting again more or you join
a retirement home but if you're building
a product with network effects that's a
communication tool you want to be on
that UPS upward curve of adding
connections to your social graph because
then the urgency to connect is higher so
if you really want to actually innovate
at the edges of communication products
you you you really have to Target that
cohort that has the highest urgency to
communicate and and that's teens I love
that you found these things out not
through just like research and not
through just thinking it was through
actual trying things over and over and
over and trying different audiences
trying different experiences like a lot
of people see your advice and they like
how does he know it's just like you've
done all these things yourself you've
seen them you're like sitting there
watching teens use these apps and I
think very few people actually do that
and they just come up with these
theories that aren't based on empirical
evidence yeah so we we we got pretty
good at um at uh building these apps I
think our first mobile app took us about
a year and then our last one took us
about two weeks we also got very good at
testing apps and the most important
thing that I often instruct teams to do
is to develop a reproducible testing
process and that will actually influence
the probability of your success more
than anything it's so unpredictable
whether a consumer product idea will
work and so if you actually focus more
more on your process for taking many
shots at bat that that's what actually
reduces the risk more than anything and
so we figured out ways to seed apps into
uh into schools we also like during the
course of that company we figured out
how to seed it into Affinity groups you
know hobbyists things like that so we
were on app number 15 uh you know we're
a lot of
failures um during during the course of
this uh
company and I remember a lot of our team
members were like I I kind of want to
leave uh I think this is it for me and
uh one one of our key team members uh
actually put in their two weeks notice
uh the day before we launch our our
final app we were also running you know
we were getting kind of low on money I
was tired um
and I uh I called our lawyer uh to ask
how do you dissolve a company I met
messaged a few mentors saying like uh I
one people that have been through it and
I said you know what are the steps to to
do this um and then I I I had a
conversation on the way out with that
that team member that wanted to leave
and I said you know I understand uh what
but what if the app actually starts
charting on the App Store and I he said
what are the chances of that uh you know
it's it's you know you know that's not
going to happen and I said sure okay um
so uh we we launched this this app and
it was you know a polling app tbh and it
immediately uh took off in the school
that we seated it into uh in in uh
Georgia we picked the one school that
had the earliest start date in the
United States because we needed to
launch as soon as possible given this
state of the company um and it just I
think it spread to you know 40% of the
school downloaded it in the first 24
hours and it rapidly spread to the
neighboring schools and suddenly I was
like oh we might have something here um
and uh servers started crashing and
watching it climb the charts I I think
within I I I I looked at our numbers and
I'm like we will be number one in the
United States in like six days uh and
then I I looked at our Amazon bill and
it was like 12,000 I looked at our bank
account it said 150,000 and I'm like
okay these two numbers don't really add
up um so I I quickly had to put together
a funding round and I told our my team
can you guys just pause for like two
months and just like really focus on
this I think I could probably sell this
thing and so it turned into a a pretty
uh competitive bidding process actually
um there there was a uh really really
great moment uh where uh there was one
of the acquirers uh or one of the biders
was based in La had told me to fly down
um and they told me to fly down that day
uh so I got on a plane went to the
airport without a ticket showed up and
when we were rolling out this app we
were doing a state byst state rollout
strategy where every state was Geo
fenced and we hadn't launched California
until that morning and I arrived uh
at this uh this company in uh this
founder in LA's house um and he said uh
you know show me the metrics you guys
are like what number four or something
and since we just launched California
it's a big State uh I said no no no
we're actually number one we're the
number one app in the United States and
I said yeah show me the metrics and our
CTO was a published Eric Hazard uh he a
published author in mapping uh and so he
he created an amazing dashboard that
could show realtime installs on a map
and it was around 400m and school had
just gotten out uh so I zoomed in on the
Block that we were having that meeting
and the entire block was lit up with
installs all around us and so then
that's what got the kind of uh the ball
rolling on a uh you know was it was a
really uh really like cinematic moment
of uh you know what showing something
that you created that literally just
took over the entire neighborhood around
you that's insane I that's goingon to be
in the movie of Nikita beer in the
future okay so a couple questions here
so one you predicted the chart it would
hit number one how do you what does it
take to hit number one like what is the
number you're looking at is it some
number downloads to get the number one
in the App Store uh it fluctuates it
used to be like like a 100 th 80 to
100,000 installs uh but now you have
these companies that are just spending
extraordinary amounts on ads and or
injecting it into one of their other
apps so between threads teu and all
these other apps that are kind of
spending on acquisition and all that uh
some days it's up to like 300,000 and
that's per day yeah oh man amazing okay
at the peak of TBH uh we were
getting 360,000 per day okay the other
two things I want to spend a little time
on here before we move on to the next
app is uh what was the Insight that
helped you come up with this is a big
idea that we should try and then was the
insight into how to spread this so
virally and I know that one is really
clever after building all these apps we
had these kind of like uh lingering
users that stuck around and would share
feedback with us uh on our next app and
so there were a couple uh like there's
this senior in high school that I would
send screenshots of our products and um
he told me about this trend called TBH
that kids were playing on Snapchat where
they would post post an image of a bunch
of emojis and it would say uh like I
like you you're smart uh your style is
great and you would just reply to the
story with the Emoji of what you felt
and I was like this is kind of weird uh
you post this on your story and then
people send you feedback and I'm like so
teens are looking for this uh this like
venue like this vehicle for disclosure
uh essentially and I'm like that that's
kind of cool I wonder if you could make
that into an app we like had sketched
some things out and uh as we were kind
of sketching things out I looked on the
App Store and the number one app in the
United States was an app called saraha
and it was for sending anonymous
messages uh by adding a link to your
Snapchat story but the thing that was
most interesting was the entire app was
in Arabic the number one app in the
United States was in Arabic and that was
one of the most uh like the strongest
signal that you could ever have that
people want something and so when I meet
with Founders I often tell them like the
way you should be searching for product
ideas is this concept of latent demand
where people are trying to obtain a
particular value and going through a
very distortive process to obtain that
value and if you can actually
crystallize what their motivation is and
build a product
around and and clear up what they're
trying to actually do you can have this
kind of uh intense adoption and uh when
we saw what people were doing with
saraha I I also looked at some of the
tweets and comments on it a lot of
people were receiving negative messages
and so I what I saw with the game that
kids were playing on Snapchat tbh and
then Saha I realized just people want to
know good about themselves and they
don't want like these bullying messages
that they're getting on these anonymous
apps and I was like well what if instead
of actually typing what you wanted to
say about somebody you uh just answered
polls and we authored those polls so
that we ensured everything would be
always be positive
and I mean in the back of my head I
always knew anonymous apps go viral but
they always lead to like like these
awful news stories of kids committing
suicide you know self harm and all that
and so I was like I'll never build
anything like that um but uh when we
came up with this new mechanic where you
could only say positive things through
polls you know who has the best smile
who's most likely to be president and
then you receive it uh and it's it's
Anonymous but your name is selected what
we discovered a couple of things is it
made users feel a lot better it actually
solved what they were trying to do and
they also sent a much higher volume of
messages and so it was it was literally
explosive adoption like one school I was
looking at they sent
450,000 messages in the first seven days
of adopting it and when you look at day
one like volume of messages sent on a
messaging app uh you're lucky if people
send like three or four or something but
we were sending like 60 and we we
couldn't even handle it so we had to
like we had to geofence the app because
it we we needed to scale our servers
which is actually a pretty controversial
decision inside of our company because
it like why would you turn off something
that's working but I at my core I knew
like if it's working at this many you
know in individual
schools we could just relaunch it any
time and it'll just it'll it'll go viral
so uh uh let's let's let's regroup and
figure out what's happening here and
then and relaunch so you keep talking
about how one viral and crazy grew like
crazy I know that there's like a little
trick that you came up with to help it
spread can you just briefly talk about
what you did there to help it spread so
quickly within a school I I think you're
referring to uh there's like a buzzfeed
memo that uh a memo that was leaked to
BuzzFeed while I was at at uh Facebook
uh and the the main thing we found was
like to to be convinced to download an
app you need to see it you need to see
like the marketing message like three
times or so uh so you basically need to
saturate an area with every kind of
marketing you can you know so we ran ads
uh at targeted at this uh a particular
school to to to when we were seating and
testing these apps and we also followed
people creating a dedicated Instagram
account that went to that school um
because we I we learned that uh high
schoolers identify their school in their
bio so it says rhs on their bio and so
that was how we tried to get uh the
entire school to adopt synchronously we
would we'd follow them and then accept
the followback a big misunderstanding
though and I I get this DM a lot of
people like I'm trying to replicate your
strategy we've just done it at 15
schools and it's it's not working
anymore this is not the way we grew the
app this is how we tested apps and that
there's it's really it's it's a little
bit nuanced there that's an important
Nuance because you need to get a a
enough intensity of adoption and density
for a social network to start to get the
Flywheel spinning but the app should
grow by itself after that and people
think we just went like from school to
school following every kid on it like
you can't that that's totally
unrealistic but for like the first
hundred users yes that's how we got them
and that allowed us to know whether the
product was working or not like we we
could get enough people on it and then
we could with conv ition say that
whether the app had legs and we wouldn't
have this kind of uncertainty like oh
did they did they add enough friends did
we get enough people on it did they
reach the aha moment because that you
need friends to get on so we we wanted
to eliminate that confounding variable
and so we we figured out a way to just
get a bunch of people to adopt at once
and that's one thing I encourage a lot
of Founders to do is figure out a way to
eliminate all those potentially
confounding variables uh so you can know
immediately whether something's working
or not you never want to walk away from
a an experiment or test and say well uh
maybe the the E execution was bad
because it takes a lot of energy to
mobilize a team to test something and
you really want to make sure your tests
actually are provide signal so your
advice here is when you're testing
something test the best possible version
of what that could be whether it takes
manual work or something that is never
going to scale like test the ideal
because that'll tell you even if this
could be the best possible version uh do
people actually care yeah we would try
to get the like uh an entire school to
adopt just to know like uh if if
everyone had 10 friends would would
would they actually derive value from
this out we also did other things like
you know and I recommend all companies
do this is uh put live chat customer
support in your app like like 24 hours a
day and it sounds insane it's like that
the whole point of tech is you you don't
need to do that that's the whole point
of a of a software but
uh then users get this white glove
experience and that eliminates another
confounding variable like did they think
they were their problems were solved or
they're they're treated well but most of
all one of the reasons I actually
recommend people put live chat in their
app is it's the best uh vehicle for
getting feedback and do doing user
research because user will literally
tell you the problem they're having um
so we we had uh our person that was
running this uh same as Michael gueras
he's he's done it for all my companies
actually he's the the the community and
customer support rep he would uh paste
any interesting feedback into slack and
then we would be like oh this this this
uh user has a great idea we should
consider turning that into a feature um
so you really want your finger on the
pulse as you roll these things out and
uh so you can get a sense for uh what's
working what isn't and also make users
feel great and make sure at the end uh
they they promote your app positively to
their peers I love that piece of advice
okay so to close out the TB
chapter is there anything else that you
think is important for people to know or
any other lasting lessons from that part
of your journey that you bring with you
to new apps that you're building today I
think the the thing that is hard to
really really understand for firsttime
Founders that hit breakout success with
a consumer product is how how draining
and how uh spread thin you get because
everything breaks everything that you
built needs to be substituted
uh almost every three days and I I can
just like give you example like we were
just talking about this customer support
system that we had the first system
broke after 3 days the next one broke s
days later we had to replace it with a
different one that could scale even
better and if you think about that on
every dimension of the company um it is
absolute like chaos to keep the thing
online uh as as it scales up and so you
have to be ruthless with prioritization
as something scales up uh and put out
the largest fires first because uh I I
that was something that I I didn't
really uh fully understand is how uh how
how how uh many things go wrong and if
we didn't geofence the app it would
there there would be no way we would
have been able to keep keep that thing
online because that gave us some slack
to uh control growth this is a good
example of when people ask like hey this
my app have product Market fit I think
this is an example of this is what it
looks like when things are breaking
every 3 days when you have to geofence
it to keep it from crashing a lot of
people ask me like what are the metrics
for uh what's the Benchmark for product
Market fit and this this founder that
I'm friends with name is Roger Dicky uh
he had he he told me aot one time um if
your products working you'll know uh and
there if there's any uncertainty it's
not working and it really is a binary
when it comes to uh consumer products um
people are going to be fighting to get
into it and you you'll find new measures
that you've never heard of like are our
metric was hourly actives per day not
daily active users hourly active users
so you'll you'll you'll start seeing
that and it'll be abundantly obvious
what product Market fit is what you you
you'll know when you see it is the
bottom line okay so you launch
TBH goes viral start getting offers from
companies nine weeks later after launch
you end up selling it to Facebook what
was it like selling your company and
then what was it like working at
Facebook which you worked at for four
years I was not expecting that when I
was looking your LinkedIn so yeah what
was it like selling what was it like
working in Facebook selling your company
is one of the most draining processes
you could ever go through as a Founder
when when we met with Facebook they told
me they have uh 80 people assigned to
this deal um and uh I'm like I have I
have one one person it's just me no uh
and they were like the SWAT team of m&a
uh and the funniest part was you know
they they wanted to meet the team as
well and so they they came out to our
office in Oakland which is a dingy old
office like that I got for $1,800 a
month that was our rent for the office
and they arrive and uh they they walk in
there's uh two engineers and one
designer and me and they're just like
this is this is the whole company this
is the number one app in the United
States like yeah this is it and when
when we went there when we arrived we
saw we joined the youth team which was
about like I don't know like 150 people
uh just for this one division of of
Facebook uh and it was like it was my
first
job that uh I effectively that I've ever
had when they told me my title uh they
said I would be a product manager um
like I I was like okay I I I don't I
don't know exactly what that is but uh
yeah I guess that's what I do and uh I I
arrive and then I get access to a
workplace system uh where you know
people post all the things they're
working on and I I realized it's like
kind of like this almost uh academic
environment for social networks like
social network development it's like the
Harvard of social networks like like of
the uh I was reading all these studies
that people were doing on like oh if we
change that this is the impact to
retention in da and I was just uh I was
so impressed like there's a whole
science here and uh a lot of the stuff
that we did was learn learned from first
principles but then we saw it actually
turn into systems and processes here but
the the the thing I didn't realize as a
product manager in a in a large tech
company is there is very little product
management that you do you're you're
actually not as involved in the product
as I had assumed like I I thought oh
you're the you're the person who uh uh
gets in the pixels and uh designs the
flows and no absolutely not like you're
actually more more you're DET completely
detached from the design process there's
a design vertical of or org that does
all that and uh they don't really want
you working on that and so that was very
difficult for me because actually when
people ask me like what do you think
you're good at like at the core I'm a
designer um I I don't consider myself a
product manager I'm you know great at
growing things looking at mix panel and
then designing the things that make it
grow uh but there's a there's a rift
between those two things inside of a
large tech company and so I loved the
academic approach to Growing but I I it
was really hard for me personally as I
uh became disconnected from the design
process and I think that a lot of my
skills atrophied over those those four
years um but um I I did stick around I
went through multiple orgs favorite one
at the end was uh new product
experimentation where worked with other
Founders uh kind of a bunch of Legends
in Silicon Valley building zero to one
products Standalone apps I mean I was
building Standalone apps my entire time
at Facebook and uh I I think I built
probably eight apps while I was at
Facebook um wow but it is it is much
much more difficult to build apps at a
large company um a lot of the
insights that you have are not things
that you can necessarily present or put
in writing into in a VP meeting like
we're building an app for teens to flirt
like that probably is not what you would
present to a bunch of McKenzie
Consultants at in uh so I think that
makes it really difficult to be
completely intellectually honest about
what you're building um and when the
team isn't honest about it then it's
it's really hard to iterate toward the
right thing in that context having said
that there's a lot of things you don't
have to deal with as a product man you I
don't have to deal about think about
money I don't have to think about you
know paying legal bills or doing Finance
and Accounting and so all that's
abstracted away but there is you know
regulatory stuff that you have to deal
with that I I had zero exposure to as a
uh as as a founder of a small company um
yeah an insight you're sharing there
potentially is like the reason a company
like Facebook isn't amazing at launching
completely new product zero to one stuff
is they might be a little too risk
averse and it's hard to talk about stuff
that people actually really really want
deeply is that is that kind of the sense
there uh it's hard to really uh
verbalize some of the reason like the uh
the things that motivate us as people
and I uh I had like a pretty there
there's a tweet I put out that's kind of
dogmatic in terms of like how how I view
why people download apps and it's like
it's very simple it's like people
download apps to uh make or save money
examples of that might be like you know
WhatsApp where you know free texting and
then the other reason is to find a mate
so maybe like Tinder or SnapChat to find
love and the third is to unplug from
reality uh maybe like Netflix or
fortnite there's a bunch of other kind
of subcategories that are very
utilitarian like movement you know Uber
or Airbnb like you know shelter and so I
think putting that in a framing document
and the particular nuanced reason uh why
people are going to adopt is is
difficult um as when you're presenting
that to uh you know people uh that are
you know seasoned professionals and uh
uh care about how something might
reflect on them personally and so that's
really difficult um inside of a large
company you certainly have distribution
advantages if you want to just inject
your app into one of the parent apps and
get density within a community you can
do that but
uh that that part I think is probably
solvable for a startup uh if you just
want to pay for ads or like getting your
app into a dense friend graph is is
overall trivial like you you as a
Founder you should be able to pull it
off after enough tries so that advantage
that a big company brings I mean it's it
makes it easier but uh it's not not
something that I think uh is something
that a Founder can't solve for
themselves so an interesting takeaway it
sounds like is many people feel like I'm
gonna build a social app they probably
often hear it Facebook's going to do
that Instagram's going to copy you
snap's going to do that and what I'm
hearing here is it's not as easy as many
people think that it might be actually a
lot harder for them to try something
it's not only harder for them to uh
identify these opportunities and to
verbalize it internally uh and align the
company around it it's it's also hard to
respond to signals in the market a lot
of people think like uh these incumbents
are going to steal your ideas and for
the most part it takes a pretty long
time for them to respond to even the
number one app or uh charting in the
because it'll start charting in the App
Store you know a PM will make a post
about it and then uh the the markets
strategy or market research team might
do a study to follow up on it uh and
it'll kind of float around for a few
months they they might uh put together a
framing deck saying hey we should go
after this opportunity let's put
together this team it'll go through VP
reviews and then uh it'll start
development development might take six
to 12 months realistically I think most
companies uh large compan
take like 12 to 24 months to respond to
competitive threats in the market do you
think this is solvable is there
something a company can change to get
better at this are there companies that
are good at this in your experience or
is this just as you grow this is just
what happens the incentives within large
companies make this very difficult
because you don't want to present
something that you have a hunch about
being a good idea because if there's not
Market signals already then it's hard to
defend and people in companies are
focused on getting their you know yearly
bonus or their uh you know uh they're
focused on their performance reviews and
uh it's hard to show up into a a framing
meeting saying like and a framing
meeting is like a meeting where you you
know you position you're you're
positioning the opportunity and
everything here's what we should go
after it's hard to like just say okay uh
by first principles this is a good idea
and here's some like very vague Market
signals in reality you need to walk in
and say here is the number one app in
the United States and we don't we don't
own it and if you present something like
that that's pretty defensible on a if
you fail uh because there was Market
evidence but if you fail about something
that's more based on kind of vague
abstract so you you have to generally
like the only path is to kind of copy
existing companies uh existing products
if you want to really get momentum uh
ins inside of a large organization and
for new completely new Concepts it's I
think very difficult to present a lot of
those ideas uh either to verbalize them
into a document or to even get rally uh
the organization around it that's a
really interesting
Insight this episode is brought to you
by explo a game changer for customer
facing analytics and data reporting are
your users craving more dashboards
reports and analytics within your
product are you tired of trying to build
it yourself as a product leader you
probably have these requests in your
road map but the struggle to prioritize
them is real building analytics from
scratch can be timec consuming expensive
and a really challenging process enter
explow explow is a fully white labeled
embedded analytic solution designed
entirely with your user in mind getting
started is easy explow connects to any
relational database or warehouse and
with its low code functionality you can
build and style dashboards in minutes
once you're ready simply embed the
dashboard or report into your
application with a tiny code snippet the
best part your end users can use explos
AI features for their own report and
dashboard generation eliminating
customer data requests for your support
team build and embed a fully wh labeled
analytics experience in days try it for
free at
expo. Lenny that's
ex. Lenny
before we move on to the next chapter uh
I want to come back to the very first
thing you said where product management
is not real uh is there anything else
that you can say about your Insight
there or is it basically what you
describe where PMs aren't actually
involved in design a company like
Facebook and your experience the the
functional organization structure of big
Tech has kind of separated product
Managers from the product development
process in many ways they're not looking
at data because data scientists are
doing that they're just parsing some of
the reports that they get back they're
mainly just writing a documents and then
kind of being the team secretary and
running around getting approvals for uh
from each uh cross functional team legal
privacy everything like that and yeah
it's you're act you're actually very
much separated from the product itself
and and so I I think like what Snapchat
has done and I think Apple too to the
same extent is that designers run the
show
and I think that's led to some very
novel products coming out from both of
those companies but I mean that that has
its own host of problems because
actually rolling out a product inside of
a large organization it it requires a
sheer force of will because it's a lot
of work I mean there's a lot of
regulatory scrutiny you know scaling it
up like there's you do need someone to
to project manage and so I I don't know
if it's the Silver Bullet is to give
designers the Reign to to control to run
the show but I also don't think the the
current the the traditional like Google
Facebook style of being team secretaries
is also the best solution to defend
product managers uh I think many product
managers spend a lot of time with design
spend a lot of a lot of time with data
signs I think probably what you saw is
like the extreme big big big Tech
version of product management I know
even ppms at Facebook can if they want
to spend time with design I think it's
just obviously very different from a
startup world where you're just that's
all you're doing yeah it's certainly an
exaggerated view but it's particularly
relevant I think for all the zero to one
initiatives uh because like if you're if
you're a product manager on a standalone
app inside of a large like you should be
designing the hierarchy the pixels the
flows everything like and then yeah it
should be cleaned up prototype by a
technical designer but that's your idea
and products Live and Die in the pixels
like consumer products so that that's
that's on you uh and that's that's where
I think for maybe larger growth
initiatives yes you can have uh you can
be a more detached from the pixels I
love that
advice okay before we move on to the
next phase of your journey of starting
gas I heard there's an interesting story
around where you were actually put
within the Facebook office uh physically
where your team was put is that that is
there some there
yeah so our our team was actually uh
when we joined the new product
experimentation group uh we were
actually seated I think like at the
basically the same desk as uh Mark
Zuckerberg uh and that that was pretty
cool uh to see you know how the how the
machine runs uh like from the uh from
zuck's view but we uh we had a few
artifacts that we had kept with us from
our old office uh when we were running
uh tbh and one of them was this uh this
kind of pop art painting that I bought
on the street when I needed to get
something on the walls for our office
and it was this giant painting of Tim
Cook we had been carrying it between our
orgs at at Facebook just because it was
a funny painting uh and I I kind of got
it because like it it was kind of
symbolic of who actually controls our
destiny is uh is Apple um and uh so when
we relocated to uh the area where Zu was
sitting I I put up the painting on the
wall and it was basically a giant
painting of Tim Cook was overlooking
Zuck and eventually one of the uh uh EAS
uh there said um actually do you think
you could take that home uh and kind of
made sense because uh the uh you can't
really have a painting of a of another
big Tech executive overlooking us what
does it look like do you happen to have
it yeah I I actually I actually do let
me let me let me go grab it
amazing oh wow that's that's artistic so
that's Tim Cook what is the idea there
that he's peeking through this Darkness
staring at you yeah yeah he's uh he's
the real boss of all of us uh I could
see I could see I have suck would not
want that staring in all day that's
amazing and I like that you still have
that with you yeah one of the artifacts
of uh that of that chapter of life so
good okay so so that was your Facebook
Journey that was four years that's wild
you left Facebook at some point you
started I just I remember this you
started tweeting like hey I'm working on
you app everyone was going nuts so whaty
working on and at this point I I think
you probably in your mind thought he I'm
this one hit wonder I haven't shown that
I can do this again and again and so I
think you probably had this motivation
maybe talk about that just like this
drive of like hey I want to do this
again is that where your mind was at
when that uh meme started my intent was
to start a venture-backed company and
build something you know uh that would
scale to be a big team and this durable
thing that you know lasted many years
and everything and so I was like uh I
just made you know a post that I was
leaving Facebook and looking for uh you
know some teammates and um I shared uh a
couple of ideas with uh some people
privately and was there were some really
crazy ideas that I shared I I I'm not
going to get into them but uh uh then
people started posting oh my God I just
saw Nikita's app it's crazy and what
happened was others saw that and then
they started Ming it and it became this
massive like meme like where they're
like oh I I just I just tried Nikita's
app it saved my marriage I I just quit
drinking uh my my kids returned home
after all these like and it just it
turned into this massive Meme and like
and at the time I I didn't even have an
app or anything like I wasn't even
planning to launch it it wasn't even an
app that the thing that I was some of
the ideas I was looking at and uh so it
just turned into this viral uh moment um
I I wasn't really even that fixated on
building another like I wasn't even
committed to starting another company at
that point I just this was an
exploration process but what happened
was
uh the market had crashed shortly
thereafter there was uh it's kind of the
end of the Zer era uh the FED started
hiking rates I think my portfolio was
down like 30% or something and I was
like damn this sucks uh maybe I should
think about how to like make money today
uh um just you know that that's that's
the reason we're in startups is to to
make money uh and so there was always in
the back of my head this question uh
that I had which was what if we had
monetized TBH because the number one
support message we received was can I
pay to reveal who sent me
polls um that was the like number one
question and I it was like would it have
made even more than the acquisition if
we just monetized it uh and so I was and
I'm like we could probably build this
pretty fast like probably in a month
month or two ended up being a lot longer
but um we uh we started rebuilding it it
was a new team uh it was uh
one of the engineers from a company
called Paparazzi his name is z z Turner
and he started building it in my house
and uh we uh we had tested it um to see
would this thing uh with this with this
this new version of TBH actually
resonate with with kids uh this five
years later that was actually the the
the thing I wanted to know most of all
was like would a polling anonymous
polling app actually still be relevant
five years later and so we dropped it
into the uh this the school uh just you
know the same way we we I I've always
done it and was it the Georgia school
again Yes actually um uh we launched at
the exact same school uh that we uh we
launched TBH on the exact same day W
five years later fun fact um and uh
people sent a lot of messages uh but it
wasn't growing so let me let me pedal
back here a bit um
so TBH grew through variety of things
people sharing their messages to
Snapchat and uh text invites and that
was
2017 uh and the way you invited your
friends on TBH was that you tapped their
name uh your contact name there was a
button that said invite and then we used
twilio to send them a text message and
the regulatory environment actually had
changed a lot over those five years you
really can't send text from a server
anymore it has to be sent from the
device the user's device and just a
point of clarification is like a lot of
people clone TBH over the years and they
think that when you voted on people in
the polls that sent them a text we never
did that that that's like egregiously
illegal to do like and also unethical at
a user experience level to send texts
when people don't even know that that's
what's happening but anyway we couldn't
send texts over over uh twio anymore and
that led to people not sending as many
invites when we recreated gas uh and uh
or we create gas because they they had
to pop they had to pop the compose
window and hit send every you can just
tap invite on five names so we actually
had to reinvent all the growth systems
and it took about I think like nine
launches including renaming the app
including
like features that just never existed on
TV so it was actually just a in many
ways like yeah the concept on the
surface was the same but it was a very
much a uh zero to one development cycle
of figuring out how to grow this thing
uh again in this in this climate I know
that point is really important to you I
think a lot of people are like Nik just
sld the same app twice what a what a guy
and point you're making here is it was
Not only was like the infrastructure
completely different the team was
different you had to rethink the entire
flywheel of how it worked and how it
grew yeah and there were so many layers
of like we we we we validated one thing
and then the next thing we weren't able
like we got stuck on like okay people
will it'll spread uh or people send a
lot of messages cool great the next
thing was will it spread within a school
that took us a while to get right will
it hop schools each of those was a very
very challenging problem uh in light of
the new climate that we were operating
in and uh I I always do things by the
book like when it comes to like
operating you know like legally within
the the compliance framework uh and
that's something I when I meet Founders
and they tell me some growth thing that
they're doing and I'm like you you can't
do that that you what that's going to
cause way more trouble down the line
it's going to burn users too and so we
always wanted to make it abundantly
clear how our growth system like how you
inviting friends and all that can kind
of go on a whole diet tribe on that
because the thing that I see a lot of
Founders do is they in the background uh
use user data in ways that it shouldn't
be used uh like they invite they invite
uh people on your behalf and all that
and I have this kind of crazy view that
the internet is this like living and
breathing thing there's this Wikipedia
article called the Gia hypothesis which
is about biology and it it's basically
like uh the Earth is kind of living and
breathing and can respond to threats
okay and when like you enter the
rainforest too deep Ebola virus will be
released okay so I think the internet
operates on a similar Paradigm here
where if you are if you do the wrong
thing by users the will come back and
and get even and defend itself and so
we've always whenever I design products
I try to do right by users because it'll
always come back much worse and I think
you should always you know operate above
board with how you design your growth
systems and with with with gas we had to
you know do things the right way and we
had to figure out at each uh each
particular kind of moment of how or
problem that we solve like will it
spread within schools will it hop
schools will people pay for it all of
all of these things we had to uh uh was
a whole rein reinvention of the original
product I love that you shared that
because I think a lot of people see you
from the outside and they think you're
doing all kinds of these skey growth
hacks and making teens do things that
aren't really mentally healthy for them
but it's clear that that's the opposite
of how you think about it that you're
trying to stay very positive like you
only allow positive communication you do
things that you as you just said are
going to be good longterm the internet's
not going to come and try to shut you
down the point you bring up here uh
about wanting to build a positive thing
there's this like there's some people
sometimes I get criticism it's not
actually that often but they say oh
you're building an app that makes teens
feel insecure or anything but with gas I
think we received a message every single
day about from a user telling us that
they reconsidered suicide or other form
of self harm the the app sent you
positive messages and affirmations uh
like it made teens feel really good and
I think a lot that that is lost on a lot
of people Instagram you know can make
you feel jealousy and like a lot of
other social networks kind of are a
mixed bag in terms of impact but we were
like entirely focused on making teens
feel better and some people might say oh
what if someone doesn't get voted for
something we actually built a system to
ensure everyone got a vote and we what
we did was we put your name in polls at
a higher frequency to uh if you weren't
being voted on recently so like we
wanted to like spread the love in every
way possible and and that's what really
motivated uh me to like grow this thing
was watching how it was impacting 10
million kids for just in in such a short
period of time I really appreciate you
adding that I didn't know all those
things about the way you thought about
these these apps interestingly I don't
know how much you can go into this but
there's a lot of uh stuff going on with
gas around uh human trafficking and all
this stuff where people thought people
were being kidnapped through gas which
is yeah talk about that whatever you can
because that's pretty crazy we had this
hoax started where uh people were saying
the app was used for human trafficking
and I I was like this is so strange this
is a Anonymous polling app without
messaging and and uh the only thing you
could do is send compliments to your
friends and I researched into it and I
saw that this is actually plaguing a lot
of apps and uh any app that has gone
viral in any way has actually had this
hoax started and part of the reason it
happens is it actually it gets you
attention if you say if you say that
about an app as as a teenager if you say
oh this app is dangerous and then you
get a bunch of followers and who doesn't
love followers
uh so it's actually a really like viral
piece of content if you put it out and
so we had this hoax started uh and we
were like this could kill the company
and I talked to a bunch of Founders that
it happened to them and they said yeah
we had to shut down because of that wow
and uh and I I was like is is this it is
like is this the you know the end of uh
the company and uh I remember it hit
number one when uh we started getting a
few of these reports like in our support
channels and I was like I'm just going
to plant the flag and and and post that
we hit number one in the app store
because this thing's probably going to
shut down soon so I I make this
announcement on Twitter I just made the
number one app and I thought it would
just be dead in a week and then uh I I
just had this sudden burst of energy and
I was like I'm gonna I'm gonna win I'm
gonna fight this uh this is not true
makes no sense at all and so we fought
it at every Vector possible um this
completely made up hoax we uh met with
journalists reporters to make sure that
the number one match every time you
search gas app human trafficking was gas
app is not for human trafficking and so
that ended up being the Washington Post
headline we insisted that that be the
headline if we do the interview so that
was the first thing that show up on
Google anytime someone searched it there
were schools and even a police station
that posted that this app is used for
human trafficking I called those
superintendent I called those police
Chiefs and got them to publicly retract
it and we had some of the reviews on the
App Store we had we asked Apple to
remove them uh because we got review
bombed but the thing that actually was
the most impactful was uh my girlfriend
made a video a Tik Tok video explaining
that it's not true and we uh anytime
someone deleted their account they could
watch this video explaining it's not
true and at the peak we had 3% of users
deleting their accounts per day it was
like really cat like it was a
catastrophe for for an app um and we got
it down to 0.1% uh through Relentless
Relentless effort and it's it was really
just uh an unusual thing that happens
when you grow really fast is uh is this
this these these this human trafficking
hoax that starts and you you you don't
understand how crazy it is until it
happens to your company um but it was it
was it was it was kind of hilarious to
think about like this this half was the
most harmless benign thing you could
think of this is insane I did not know
this full story and you were doing all
this while you were trying to scale the
app and trying to keep the servers up
and try to grow it right how what was
that like to try to manage all these
things at once I was sleeping three
hours a day for three months it was EXT
extraordinarily difficult uh to to do it
all uh our team was also Relentless
though like they would come over to my
house 9:00 a.m. stay until midnight and
just do that seven days a
week um so yeah it was uh it was
definitely like one of the most
physically draining things ever but we
were just so tactical I remember
investors were asking to meet with us
and I said if you can't get a celebrity
to post that this isn't true then uh we
we're not interested but yeah we we we
went after it on every vector
and uh it ended up being okay I love how
this like you took your brain to this
other completely different problem and
thought about all the levers you could
use to change the conversation around
the app yeah we even I remember we had
these Tik Tok videos that were made that
were saying it was true and I had like I
I clim I networked my way all the way to
the CEO of Tik Tok and I said can you
delete these and we got them this miss
this information deleted yeah so it was
uh it was really a uh a whole new test
of uh our team's capacities was uh
fighting the the key thing that you have
to know though when you have a hoax
spreading about your app is uh you
really have to make sure the hoax is
less viral than your app uh and some at
a few points The hoax was more viral
than our app and we had to uh we had to
take this uh the K factor of the
hoax that's absurd okay so broadly you
built this app again a big success I saw
stat that you made $10 million or $1
million in sales through the app 10
million downloads that right yeah it was
a blowout success in terms of like on on
uh it grew bigger than TBH uh we
monetized it you know we ran almost
entirely on Startup credits um so it was
basically you know CL credits like aw
credits AWS credits mix panel I I I
remember I I was like when I saw the
early data I'm like okay now it's time
for me to negotiate every bill down to
last cent of margin for every vendor and
I got credits everywhere and so I I we
really were tactical with that um and so
we ended up being you know all all just
pure cash flow for the team no we had no
investors and uh and it was just so
interesting though that like the way
that I started posting about it on
Twitter was it kind of captured the
zeitgeist of of the internet and uh we
didn't intend on selling it we were just
going to let this thing run its course
and just be this app that kind of lives
in the background of Our Lives um but uh
once it started capturing like the zist
of Twitter I was like wait a minute we
could probably sell this thing and uh
and that's when we started engaging with
uh you know some of these we ended up
getting uh yeah three three companies
that wanted to to buy it won't be able
to say them but ultimately we ended up
selling to uh to Discord
um and we uh we we join
Discord awesome so before we move on to
the next part of the journey and some of
the other insights that uh I want to get
into is there any lasting lessons that
you took away from gas as a product that
you take with you to advising startups
in terms of building the product design
I know there's many but any that stand
out most that you think are really
interesting to share I think I kind of
touched on this before which was trying
to validate things in in a sequence of
like will people use the core flow will
people spread it within their peer group
will it hot peer groups and what I think
the most important thing is that I
learned is that's actually a really
great way to do zero to one product
development is execute at 100% for the
thing you're trying to validate at that
specific stage of the product
development cycle and then the rest can
kind of you can kind of half-ass the
rest just so you can get 100% signal on
that one part
and so we made the polling experience
just perfect the questions were great
you know push push notific everything
worked and then the next stage was like
getting sharing and virality working and
so compartmentalizing those things
because ultimately you'll have too much
scope creep if you try to solve
everything at once and validate and also
you're not going to get signal too like
you're trying to test one thing at a
time so the way that now I approach a
lot of consumer product development is
like if this is true then what next
needs to be true for this thing to work
out and layers of conditional statements
and the more layers you have the higher
risk your product is so you should try
to condense it to about like four things
that must be true uh for the thing to
work and this comes back to your advice
of the thing you need to get good at is
testing and learning and making it
really quick yeah okay maybe one last
thing along this thread I'm just really
curious how this hoax came to be like
who's behind it how does this happen we
got a original support message which uh
which which was a a screenshot of a
story on Snapchat okay and it saido not
download the gas app it's for human
trafficking okay and it was a screenshot
that had like uh kind of that mirror
effect where you have like uh 10 like 10
people had screenshotted it like more
like 40 people because it had like all
the usernames of uh so I was looking at
this and I'm like how much visib like
how how many people have seen this uh
and it looked like a viral thing on
Snapchat and then I went to the App
Store page and I saw a review that uh
that said this app is for human
trafficking and I went to my team and I
said you know
we this this might this will probably
kill the company this will kill the
product um I I've seen this before with
consumer apps and it's evident to me
this is going to be 10 times bigger
tomorrow and they were like no it's just
one one message what what do you mean
I'm like no no it's been screenshotted
40 times and now it's on the app store
Page like and we got another message
four hours later and uh in the next day
it was our entire app store Page was
just covered with reviews saying that
the apps for human trafficking and uh we
actually had to Rebrand the app we uh we
relaunched it once uh and uh we're like
we let's just call it something
different just relaunch it on the other
side of the country we did that started
going viral again and uh the the
craziest thing was it reemerged and what
happened was one user was friends with
another person in another state and they
got an invitation and that user told
them oh that was in my state it's
actually for human trafficking and then
it just completely started again and uh
and then it was too late at that point
to relaunch again uh was I we just
realized we just got it we gotta we got
to fight this thing and and uh
ultimately I don't think we'll ever know
the true origin but uh yeah it was uh it
was it was definitely a living breathing
uh uh like hoax that is insane that the
story just gets more and more
interesting what are the what were some
of the previous names by the way is that
something you can share yeah we went
through a bunch we had like uh one of
them was called Crush one of them was
called melt and another was uh the
interesting thing about crush is we got
a great domain we thought this was this
would be the name uh this was between
the some of the like rebrands we tested
it and we saw that invitations dropped
significantly under the crush name and
we were like what's going on here and we
found that actually when you invite
someone to an app regardless of the app
you generally me Bo boys invite boys
girls invite girls to apps and boys
didn't want to invite their friends to
an app called crush a pink with a pink
Icon and then we looked at the data and
the app I mean this was true of TBH too
which was the app indexed about 6 60 to
65% women so we're just like let's make
the app more masculine and see what
happens we need balance on this so we we
made the icon black with a flame called
it gas and the invitees rate jumped and
uh you think a name doesn't matter but
right at the moment of sending an invite
yeah you uh so that was one of the
interesting insights of on uh the the
naming process man there's just endless
stories that we could keep getting into
but uh We've also gone very long so I'm
gonna try to move on yeah to another
topic so I asked people on Twitter what
to ask you uh just that question got a
thousand likes just me asking what
should ask Nikita and the most common
question I'm sure you get this a lot is
just people wondering do you ever want
to build a durable consumer app is it
possible to build a durable consumer app
Scott bsky asked this uh Robert at fig
Mass this and Scott actually had a
really nice way of describing it about
why are so many quick sensation C
consumer apps proving to be more akin to
Summer songs than enduring Standalone
products and businesses there's kind of
two questions here one is Do you want to
build a do you aim to build a cons
durable consumer app and two how
possible is it a lot of the fundamental
like tools for communicating with our
friends either you know messaging uh or
posting broadcasting one to many like on
stories or po you know those the
incumbents have kind of uh built pretty
large Moes in terms of network effects
and to provide true like uh like an
order of magnitude better experience is
non-trivial because they've been
actually improved these products so much
over the years and there's actually not
there's not that many entry points not
not to say that it's not impossible
Snapchat was showed that there was a
style of messaging that people wanted
that the incumbents weren't serving but
I think there's these kind of edges that
you can go after with a much higher
probability of success and they might
not actually be something that's durable
necessarily and I think finding
durability for a like communication or
social product that's a Black Swan event
you like retention for Consumer social
is like there there's a tremendous
amount of Randomness there's like one
every decade if it was simple I I would
just be printing one trillion dollar
companies uh I be printing Facebooks uh
every time I sat down but I think it's
actually a lot of it is pure Randomness
on the other hand growing a product can
be a science with certainty if you're
good at your job you can make an app
grow and go viral
now why haven't I tried to take the
viral part and build something that has
been durable or long lasting I'll tell
you a little bit about my motivations my
favorite part about product development
is you make this thing you know through
the night you build it and you watch it
take over the Internet that is the mo
most thrilling drug I think you you
could you could ever experience and and
and just watching it spread all over the
country it's like you you drop an app in
you know the uh the Deep South in
Georgia and then you look on your
analytics dashboard and 40% of the high
school down your street in Los Angeles
has downloaded it one week later like
that's a really profound feeling that's
it's just it's crazy to have that sort
of impact as a three-person team and I I
live for that when I joined Facebook uh
this is like here's here's an
interesting connection so I joined
Facebook and I saw that many of my peers
were like looking up to VPS and they're
like that's what I that's what I want to
make it to one day and I want to run a
large organization I want to have lots
of reports and and then I met with VPS
and they were actually jealous of me
because my quality of life was actually
pretty cool I I I got to build something
high impact that uh made many teens feel
better about themselves made decent
amount of money and then I wasn't you
know uh in charge of this becoming a
people manager that has to run this
large Organization for for many years
and so I think one day I will uh run
maybe a venture scale business that uh
but I uh I I I I will say that I kind of
like the way that I've been doing things
so far uh in terms of quality of life
and being fun financially it's been
great so I think uh that that part is
what motivates me and yeah I I don't
think uh you know running a large
corporation is necessarily what I
describe as fun that's amazing man I
really I'm really happy we went here uh
so much of this resonates with the way I
think and uh obviously a big part of
this is also just it's very hard as you
said to build a dur build a consumer app
that grows first of all second actually
lasts but that is interesting that you
do hope to one day build a uh Venture
funded business I mean TBH was
venture-backed but uh I I just don't
like I I I think I'm gonna have to like
do I want to sign up for 10 years and if
you actually look at some of the numbers
uh on like the the actual proceeds that
some that some of these Founders get
after an IPO after seven rounds of
delution a lot of them are pretty
comparable to what we get from our apps
for 90 days of work so um yeah they uh
the tradeoffs there are pretty uh pretty
favorable actually just on that on that
note so what would make you actually
decide to go Venture funded you talked
about how if you're going more
mainstream non- teens folks after 22
years old is that why you would go that
route I don't think that like it's
necessarily that part it's more uh I
think if uh the if I if if I could keep
the team lean and and scale up I I think
you know there's there's some actual uh
Founders that actually operate very lean
teams and have reached very large scale
in terms of the valuations the company
like actually the the most uh iconic
example is Elon Musk his teams are
actually pretty thin overall and he's
he's in the weeds doing product
development and so I I think yeah if if
I was to ever do it I do it under very
specific set of uh operating principles
uh versus turning it into a big tech
company Q investors emailing you right
now send with term
sheets okay Nikita this has been amazing
uh there's one last segment I want to
spend a little time on which is just
kind of a rapid fire of pieces of advice
you've shared that uh I think is
incredibly insightful about how to build
a successful consumer app and so I'm
thinking I'll just go through like three
to five and see what you think and see
what you can add to the the device
that's how does that sound sounds great
Okay cool so so the first is just uh
contact permissions in iOS 18 changes
the game and how people can grow apps
basically makes it harder to invite your
friends thoughts on how people should be
thinking about this in their in their
products I uh when I first saw it I was
I was really concerned uh tweet about it
you're like that's the end came over
just let me let me frame things up for
you
the contact permission screen you know
you you average about 65% approval rate
across all apps higher it's higher for
teens lower for adults
and but if you have a 65% consenting to
contacts access then the next step on
this new iOS 18 change is you select
which contacts you want to allow the app
to access and it's an alphabetical list
and that alphabetical list for me I have
550 cont or something the first 10
contacts are punctuation symbols from
whatever like dirty entry I put when I
was driving or something so you have to
scroll down and find that name so I have
to find Lenny I have to add you and what
if you're not an app user so I've just
added you and or three others like
assuming users are willing to even do
that and then you like you and then the
three others never sign up but maybe
three of your friends do but I never get
connected to them because uh there's
there's no over
so the my expectation is the it's going
to be very difficult to find friends on
apps going forward to invite friends on
apps going forward and that Founders
will need to rethink how they do it and
of the of the companies I'm working with
on on intro we are looking at ways to
reinvent what contact sync is or what it
what what purpose it served it's not
promising but we have we have some good
leads and I think we'll have a whole new
set of apps emerging as a consequence
but if you're betting on contact sync as
a company right now yeah you you better
uh better start uh thinking about Plan B
so what my takeaway here is just it is
now much different and there's an
opportunity to think of something really
clever that would give you a huge
Advantage if you can crack it yes but
most likely I think most apps will not
have social graphs going forward and
this will entrench incumbents even more
I I don't think Apple uh acknowledged
that I think the person that designed
the feature probably have has never
built an app or done contact sync before
because the flow is egregiously bad and
it it doesn't actually even I think
benefit the user's privacy because it
just completely eliminates the feature
altogether okay next topic so you uh
helped uh this product called dupe
succeed it's doing incredibly well from
what I can see and I saw you tweet about
one of the key things that you helped
them through which is to invert I'm
reading this quote inverting the time to
Value so that the user experiences the
aha moment in seconds talk about that
insight and how important that is to
building a successful consumer social
app the this kind of concept of getting
users to the aha moment is something I
recurringly bring up to every company I
work with
and you have to understand that in
2024 people's attention spans are like 3
seconds it's really sad but you know we
are we're we're spread thin through so
many notifications products everything
that if you can't demonstrate value in
the first three seconds it's over and
and this also leads back to the containg
question that you talked about was you
have to sign up and then the first night
you have to see all of your friends on
the app and experience it otherwise
you'll you'll churn so this ideaa of
like inverting the value uh when I was
working with dupe they had this kind of
shopping app that had a bunch of
different features and there was one
feature that I saw that was interesting
called deal hop and it allowed you to
just you know put in a product page and
it would find uh the cheapest version of
it
online um something I already do kind of
through a bunch of duct taped methods of
Google image search Google ends and uh I
was like that should be a that should be
a whole company but how are we going to
teach users to do it and how do we
expose them to that aha moment as fast
as possible in a memorable iconic way
and I had this product I I built a while
back where you just type the domain in
front of an existing URL so I should I
told them uh you should try this uh it's
like very marketable and but you need to
get a very short domain that matches the
what you're doing and so he went and
bought dp.com for I don't know how much
but it was when he bought that I was
pretty uh pretty excited I'm like well I
if this doesn't work I'm gonna feel
terrible but if it does work it's going
to be a blowout success and so we he put
out a couple videos about it and then
you know it was iconic went viral uh the
videos users remembered to do it to type
dp.com in front of a URL and now I think
they're you know making millions in AR
in a matter like I think under 60 days
of launching and that that was a blowout
success and uh yeah of the companies I
work with like uh you know that R like I
would say it happens about 50% of the
time we hit that much success but the uh
we hit success I think 50% of the time
it's outright failure because consumer
is so random and so what I'm hearing is
a big Insight is
just ideally gets a three seconds time
to value is that the advice yeah
yeah sounds great easy peasy
yeah uh you you really have to craft you
know on boarding everything to to ensure
that um and it's yeah it's it's
uh that's
where the design part comes in of being
a great product person and imagine a big
part of this is just cutting things you
think like killing Your Darlings cutting
things you think people need and just
being really ruthless with that really
ruthless but also being extraordinarily
creative with h how you use the tools
available to uh activate a user and I
think extraordinary product people are
deeply aware of every possible API and
how it can be used in non-traditional
ways like this URL trick was something
that I think you know was
non-traditional that uh people adopted
very quickly I have like a whole laundry
list of uh iOS mechanisms that could be
re that people use for a certain way
today but you could invert them uh
contact sync is a great example because
you know you sync your contacts and then
it finds all the friends and then ranks
the people who are not on the app yet
but have a bunch of friends on so
there's there's a bunch of uh ways that
you can one tap expose a ton of value to
users that uh that I think Founders
often neglect and the yeah a lot a lot
of Founders will go and say oh they can
just Exchange usernames and that's how
they can add each other that is the most
like unrealistic thing ever because that
means you have to see the username type
it into the app you have to do that what
uh 50 times to get a 50 friend person
friend list so we're think we're looking
at uh like 10,000 Taps versus one so
that's that's what I mean by trying to
get people to to the activation moment
the aha moment uh and get them uh get
get get them to Value I love that advice
so maybe as a just a last question along
these lines when you come to a Founder a
relationship that you're a startup
you're trying to
help is there one more thing that you
find often ends up being really helpful
to them any common piece of advice
that's like oh this is probably what's
going to help you you talked about this
aha moment step the sharing contact
sharing stuff I guess is there anything
else that's just like this is something
that'll probably going to help you with
your app right now I think I advise
around 35 36 companies um and all of
them are at kind of different stages of
uh challenges they're facing um some of
them are you know pure at the product
concept stage some of them are you know
venture-backed billion doll companies
and each of them faces different
problems and I think the first thing I
often do is I I ask them to show me the
analytics we look at how people are
Distributing the app today what's the
what is the uh Milestone that a user
must hit to become activated and what's
getting in the way uh of that I also
take a very deep look at uh every funnel
that users come through
and I think uh a lot of Founders
separate marketing
and product growth uh like top of funnel
growth from from from the actual
products growth mechanisms but
they're both the same they're both like
they both should be treated as the same
like if uh if you're targeting a a
community and you want them to all adopt
and get saturation you need to uh build
marketing that shows imagery of that
Community or whatever and then when you
get in the app you have to be able to
join that community that the and when
you invite people to the from that app
that Community needs to be mentioned so
there you need to cover every the mark
like everything from the ads to the
inapp experience to the all of that
needs to be aligned for a user
acquisition and flywheel spin a lot of
people really screw that up that's kind
of kind of my initial kind of rough
approximation of what I do when I come
in and try to fix some of the or try to
help with some of the challenges these
companies are facing okay so this is
actually a great segue to the final
thing I want to make sure people
understand is you help companies through
this talk about how you work with
companies where they can can find you
what kind of companies you're looking to
work with and how all that works yeah um
so I work across the gamut most of them
are like consumer mobile companies and
there certainly are web ones too but I
uh I work with companies across stages
typically I recommend that you don't
book me unless you're venture-backed
it's because it's a little expensive but
my main goal when uh when someone does
seek my advice through intro is is I I
try to make them like 10 times back
their money in the first 30 days and so
far I think I've I've managed to do that
with anyone who's who's met with me and
that means like get all the table Stakes
growth things out of the way uh at the
minimum then identify two to three step
function changes that could change their
growth trajectory and these are higher
scope fundamental changes to the product
so I try to couple both explain to them
which one I which direction I believe
they should go it's a conversation and
we talk about it and and then once they
kind of settle on a
direction I uh I I tend to get in the
pixels I go into figma and we do a live
session together and kind of clean
things up I identify oh that that's
going to convert at this percent that's
gonna and then I like just manage all
that and then but yeah it's generally
like post uh series a some you know seed
seed stage companies uh and it's it's
been really fun it it's kept my you know
my mind sharp on uh like where the
Market's headed I've also kind of over
the years of building all these apps
I've acred all these growth hacks that
still are nobody knows about and so I
share those with the when when it's
relevant for the company and it's it's
been great uh yeah dupe was one of them
I I was advising Saturn I rebuilt their
FriendFinder they're I think believe
they're number one in uh the
productivity section above chat GPT uh
as of today I think I've but I think
I've generally invested uh in about
maybe 10% of the companies uh that that
seek out my advice amazing well I know
it feels expensive to some people but if
I were a company with cash it feels like
the best deal I could find someone like
you to come in and actually help me
think through deeply like in the pixels
how to make my thing work so I think
you're still undercharging and I hope
you keep raising your prices because
clearly there's a lot of demand Nikita
this was incredible I feel like people
see on Twitter and they're like oh this
guy is such a jerk sometimes but like
meeting you in person and talking to you
it's very clear you're a really kind
dude really thoughtful all your advice
is based on like real things you have
done it's not just you sitting around
pontificating and I think that's
incredibly valuable and I'm excited
people are tapping that knowledge and
you're sharing it with people in a wider
scale it's it's been a pleasure uh
thanks for having me um we covered a lot
and uh there's there's there's plenty
more I hope to come back uh after the
next viral hit oh man I was going to ask
you is there anything you're working on
now or stages what can you share about
the next stay tuned here we go amazing H
I always ask people how can listeners be
useful to you so let me just ask you
that as a final question how can
listeners useful to you uh follow me on
Twitter uh and enjoy my ship posts uh
and I hope you're you have as much fun
with me as me uh on on Twitter I do man
I love your tweets and uh Nikita thank
you so much for doing this and for being
here
yeah thanks a lot bye
everyone thank you so much for listening
if you found this valuable you can
subscribe to the show on Apple podcast
Spotify or your favorite podcast app
also please consider giving us a rating
or leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast you can
find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at Lenny podcast.com see
you in the next episode